# Lab 05 - Migrating the application database from on-premises environment to Azure

## Objective

In this Lab we would utilize the Cloud Adoption Framework Adopt
methodology to migrate on-premises Databases using the Azure Database
Migration Service to migrate the SQL Database. Azure Database Migration
Service is a tool that helps you simplify, guide, and automate your
database migration to Azure. Easily migrate your data, schema, and
objects from multiple sources to the cloud at scale.

![A diagram of a cloud server Description automatically generated with
medium confidence](./media/image1.jpeg)

> **Note**: Start your virtual machines if you have stopped them after
your previous lab.

## Exercise 1 - Migrating Microsoft SQL database to Azure SQL Database

### Task 1: Register the Microsoft.DataMigration resource provider

Prior to using the Azure Database Migration Service, the resource
provider **Microsoft.DataMigration** must be registered in the target
subscription.

1.  Open the Azure Cloud Shell by navigating
    to `https://shell.azure.com`. Log in using your Azure
    subscription credentials if prompted to do so, select
    a **PowerShell** session, and accept any prompts.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image2.jpeg)

2.  Select **Create storage** button.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image3.jpeg)

3.  Run the following command to register
    the **Microsoft.DataMigration** resource provider:

    `Register-AzResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.DataMigration`

    > **Note**: It may take several minutes for the resource provider to
    register. You can proceed to the next task without waiting for the
    registration to complete. You will not use the resource provider until
    task 3.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image4.jpeg)

4.  You can check the status by running:

    `Get-AzResourceProvider -ProviderNamespace Microsoft.DataMigration | Select-Object ProviderNamespace, RegistrationState, ResourceTypes`

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image5.jpeg)

You have completed this task. Do not close any windows and please
proceed ahead with the next task.

**Task summary**

In this task you registered the **Microsoft.DataMigration** resource
provider with your subscription. This enables this subscription to use
the Azure Database Migration Service.

### Task 2: Create the Database Migration Service

In this task you will create an Azure Database Migration Service
resource. This resource is managed by the **Microsoft.DataMigration
resource** provider which you registered in task 1.

> **Note**: The Azure Database Migrate Service (DMS) requires network
access to your on-premises database to retrieve the data to transfer. To
achieve this access, the DMS is deployed into an Azure VNet. You are
then responsible for connecting that VNet securely to your database, for
example by using a Site-to-Site VPN or ExpressRoute connection.

In this lab, the 'on-premises' environment is simulated by a Hyper-V
host running in an Azure VM. This VM is deployed to the 'smarthotelvnet'
VNet. The DMS will be deployed to a separate VNet called 'DMSVnet'. To
simulate the on-premises connection, these two VNet have been peered.

1.  Connect to the **SmartHotelHost** VM using Remote desktop and
    launch **Chrome** from the desktop shortcut.

2.  Navigate to the Azure portal `https://portal.azure.com` search
    for `Azure database migration`, and then select **Azure Database
    Migration Services** from the drop-down list.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image6.jpeg)

3.  On the **Azure Database Migration Services** blade, select
    + **Create**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image7.jpeg)

4.  Review the details on the **Select migration scenario and Database
    Migration Service** page and click on the **Select** button

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image8.jpeg)

5.  On the Create Data Migration Service page, Basics tab, provide the
    below details.

    - Subscription -- **Azure Pass -- Sponsorship**

    - Resource group: **SmartHotelRG**

    - Location -- **West US**

    - Name: `SmartHotelDBMigration`

    - Click on **Review + create**

    ![A screenshot of a data migration service Description automatically
generated](./media/image9.jpeg)

6.  On the **Review + create** tab, click on the **Create** button.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image10.jpeg)

7.  The Deployment should be completed in few seconds, click on **Go to
    resource** button.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image11.png)

8.  Select **Integration runtime** under Settings, then click
    on **Configure integration runtime.**

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image12.jpeg)

9.  Click on the link **Download and install the integration
    runtime** and download the runtime on the **SmartHotelHost** VM

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image13.jpeg)

10. Click on the **Download**

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image14.png)

11. Choose the most recent version and the click on **Download**

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image15.png)

12. Once downloaded, install the Integration runtime with the default
    options

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image16.jpeg)

13. The **Microsoft Integration runtime Configuration manager** should
    launch upon clicking the **Finish** button.

14. From the Azure Portal, **Configure integration runtime** tab copy
    the **Key 1** value

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image17.jpeg)

15. Back on the **Microsoft Integration runtime Configuration
    manager** paste the copied key and click on the **Register** button.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image18.jpeg)

16. Click on the **Finish** button

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image19.jpeg)

    ![A yellow rectangle with black text Description automatically
generated](./media/image20.jpeg)

17. Once the Registration is completed, click on **Launch Configuration
    Manager** button.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image21.jpeg)

18. Review the details on the **Microsoft Integration runtime
    Configuration manager**

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image22.jpeg)

19. Switch back to the Azure portal and click Ok on the **Configure
    integration runtime** tab.

20. The Status should be updated to Online for the **Integration
    runtime**

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image23.jpeg)

### Task 3: Migrate the On-premises SQL Database to Azure SQL Database

1.  While still on the Azure Database Migration service page, select
    Overview and then click on **New Migration** button under Getting
    started tab.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image24.jpeg)

2.  On the Select new migration scenario page, provide the below details

    - Source server type -- **SQL Server**

    - Target server type -- **Azure SQL Database**

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image25.jpeg)

3.  Click on the **Select** button

4.  On the Azure SQL Database Offline Migration Wizard page, provide the
    below details on the **Connect to source SQL Server** tab.

    - Source server name: `192.168.0.6`

    - Authentication type: **SQL Authentication**

    - Username: `sa`

    - Password: `demo!pass123`

    - Connection properties -- **enable both check boxes**

    ![A screenshot of a login Description automatically
generated](./media/image26.jpeg)

5.  Click on **Next: Select database for migration \>\>**

6.  On the **Select database for migration** tab, select the
    SmartHotel.Registration database and click on **Next: Connect to the
    target Azure SQL Database \>\>**

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image27.jpeg)

7.  On the **Connect to the target Azure SQL Database** tab all the
    information should already be populated, you can review the
    information, then provide the password -- `demo!pass123` and
    click on **Next: Map source and target databases \>\>**

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image28.jpeg)

8.  On the **Map source and target databases** tab, from the drop-down
    of Target database select **smarthoteldb** and then click on **Next:
    Select database tables to migrate \>\>**

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image29.jpeg)

9.  On the **Select database tables to migrate** tab, click on the
    drop-down **SmartHotel.Registration tables selected 2/2** and ensure
    that the \[dbo\].\[Bookings\] is only the table which is selected
    and then click on **Next: Database migration summary \>\>**

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image30.jpeg)

10. On the **Database migration summary** tab, review the details and
    then click on **Start migration** button.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image31.jpeg)

11. The Migration status can be seen under the **Migration** tab

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image32.jpeg)

    > **Note: The Migration will take around 10 minutes**

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image33.jpeg)

12. Click on the **Refresh** button couple of times, till the Migration
    status changed to **Succeeded**.

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image34.jpeg)

13. Click on the Source name, **192.168.0.6**

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image35.jpeg)

14. Review the details of the Migration

    ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image36.jpeg)

15. We have successfully migrated the On-premises SQL Database to Azure
    SQL Database.

### Summary

In this Lab we should have worked with Azure Database Migration service
and install the required integration runtime on
the **SmartHotelHost** VM to be able migrate the on-premises database
successfully to Azure SQL Database using the Database Migration Service
(**DMS**).

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image36.jpeg)
